Welcome to module 11, channel setup and optimization.
This is gonna be setting up your channel the right way.
A how to so what doesn't matter,
which is just about everything I'm about
to talk about, to be honest with you.
Uh, stop wasting time over this type of stuff.
Just get these done. Don't be a perfectionist, right?
Your channel name, it can be anything.
My channel name could be Eddie E 79 football.
And it could be a channel about politics.
It doesn't matter, okay? Channel name doesn't matter.
It's not gonna help you get videos recommended.
Like if you're starting a personal brand, sure.
Make something that's like, maybe it matters
for a brand just for, you know, brand deals and stuff
and, uh, people remembering your name.
Like this really, really doesn't matter.
Uh, profile picture just needs to be something.
I started a a Canada News politics channel.
The profile picture,
I literally just searched up Canada Flag, cropped it
to be like a one x one square, uploaded it another channel,
my compilation channel.
I literally just took the name of the channel
and just wrote it, like put a green background
and just wrote the name, like with white text.
And that was my pro picture. It doesn't matter.
Banner, just have one.
This helps prevent channels from getting shadow banned.
If you set all this stuff up,
YouTube likes seeing it set up,
but it doesn't matter what it is,
nobody even sees your channel banner.
Um, like for my, once again the Canada News Channel,
I wanna highlight this one 'cause I really like set up this
channel in less than maybe two minutes.
Uh, I literally took the same picture I used
for the profile picture and I just zoomed it in on the
banner size and I uploaded that as my banner.
And like, you know how YouTube cuts off the banner like
that, that banner was so cut off, I just uploaded it
to have one channel description.
Just fill it out, just have one.
It doesn't matter what it says. I always put the same thing
like subscribe to help me reach one K
because when it's a new channel, uh, most
of the time you're gonna have no subscribers, right?
So I just put subscribe
to help me reach a one K just in case like even if 10
people, you know, see that
and end up subbing because of that, well guess what?
Now you're just like a little bit closer to monetization.
1% closer. I mean, who's gonna complain about that?
Takes 10 seconds to write this out.
You know, you get 1% closer, might as well,
you know, it's, it's not gonna hurt.
Uh, you don't have to put this like,
you could put literally anything, but that's just what I do.
So get to work instead of perfecting these, ideally all
of this, like you shouldn't be putting more,
you shouldn't be putting more than like,
I'd say 25 minutes into all, all
of this highlighted stuff here,
like more than even 20 minutes
and like if you want to spend, you know, an hour max,
but like if you just wanna make some like something
that you actually like completely unnecessary,
like I would recommend doing like 15 to 25 minutes
and then using the rest of the time
that you would've used onto
getting to work on your first video.
So what actually does matter?
Well, in your channel settings, you wanna set a few things.
Your country, you wanna set your language,
you wanna set made for kids and you wanna set your category.
So I'm gonna open up a channel and show you guys
what I'm talking about here.
Uh, I feel like I keep blocking
what I'm showing with my face.
My bad. Alright, so you know what I've decided?
I'm gonna move my face to the top, right?
Because I feel like there's less stuff up here
and I'm not blocking anything important.
So if I was blocking stuff before, I mean I'm still talking
and going over everything.
Hopefully it wasn't too big of a deal,
but I'm gonna open up a channel
now and show you guys kinda what
I mean. So let's
take this random channel. I got sleepless Crime.
You can see right here. Profile picture is just ai.
I literally just went into AI when I made the channel,
like Chachi, bt, I'm like,
just make a prisoner sleeping on a desk.
I did that and look at the banner.
I literally just took the profile picture,
zoomed it in, made that to banner.
Guess what my description is?
It's subscribed to get me to 10,000 subscribers.
I, I must have changed it once I hit one K just for fun,
but it was definitely just 1000 before I just added a zero.
Uh, we go over here, we go to my settings, right?
Here's what matters. We got, we go to the channel,
we wanna put, you don't really need to put keywords here.
I just like to, I just put like a few
keywords, but this isn't necessary.
Just put your, your country,
you know, minds of the United States.
Go to advanced settings and select no here.
If you still, even if it's a channel that's technically made
for kids, even if your video is meant
to target three year olds, it doesn't matter.
Set this to no always. Like,
this is like everybody watching this.
No matter what your niche is, set this to No.
If you set it to yes, you can't make money,
you said it to, I want it to review.
It's like, why would you wanna review it?
If you ever said it to yes,
then you can't make money off the video.
So just always set this, just set this to note here
so you don't ever have to worry about this later on.
Uh, I like to go to upload default.
So in here it's just basic info country
and I just set this in advanced settings to know.
So it's literally two things. One in basic
info, one in advanced settings.
Then I go to upload defaults,
I go into the advanced settings, I set my category.
So in this case it's entertainment.
Don't stress about this too much.
Just figure out most channels are
gonna be in like entertainment.
If you're making a video about like cars
or channel about cars, like maybe it'll be in autos vehicle,
this doesn't really matter as far as I know.
I think this matters mostly if you ever see, uh,
the trending tab on YouTube, like you'll have trending
and entertainment or trending and gaming.
I think this just helps categorize for that.
I like to set it just in case.
Just choose whatever is closest,
but if you can't figure it out,
it's like in between two of them.
Just choose one of the two.
It it, I'm sure it doesn't matter too much.
I, I do think it's just for trending.
I do like to set it though. One thing, uh,
so this isn't too important,
but one thing I do set is I always set
the video language to English.
There's a bunch of English options,
but I always just send it to normal English, uh, title
and description language.
I just send it to uh, English or set it to English as well.
And I think that's it.
So we got, uh, in, in uh, channel,
we got country advanced settings.
We got no upload defaults and advanced settings.
I just set video language to English and title
and description language to English and uh, that is it.
Next is tags in description strategy.
So tags are mostly useless
and by mostly I mean like probably completely
useless, um, which I write here.
Tags are basically useless.
Uh, use them in your first few videos just in case I like to
and like my, like until my video starts getting impressions
from browse features and suggested,
I mean like at least a hundred total impressions on one
video from browse features and suggested combined At
that point, that's enough for me to know, okay,
my channel is not shadow banned.
Uh, shadow banding is just like when YouTube doesn't push
your videos out, there's another reasons this can happen.
It's not that common so don't worry about it.
But anyways, I use 'em on just like the first few videos
until I get a few hundred impressions from specifically
browse features and impressions or browse features
and suggested, sorry.
And then I stop using the tag.
That's what I normally do. But I've
Also honestly run channels
where I definitely didn't use any tags from the first video.
So tags don't do anything.
I've just been running YouTube channels for
around four years and four years ago they did do a little
bit, so I'm just kind of used to it.
So I would do this as a just in case it's not really hard.
Uh, you know, they help, they might help
with the initial audience targeting
to get the right audience, but once you're getting a few
hundred views, just don't even bother.
Your time is better spent elsewhere.
If you're wondering how do you come up with tags,
I just use Vid iq, it's an extension.
Make sure you know you got Google Chrome
or Opera gx, something that uses Chrome extensions
and just search up Vid IQ extension in the search bar.
And then when you go to the tag section,
it'll say like recommended tags
and you could just type them in.
I mean, I don't even need a screen share.
It's pretty easily easy to use.
And to be honest with you, it's like really not important.
Like if you don't use tags, I'm honestly
pretty confident there will be no difference.
Unlike your tags though, your
description is super important.
Descriptions actually do matter,
but they need to be done, right, right.
I do be between four
and seven sentences, like a literal description of the video
as if imagine you had like a school project.
Hey, write a description about this video.
I write four to seven sentences typically using AI
and I write a genuine description about
what the video's about.
And in this description, I use keywords from my niche.
So for example, if it's like a Minecraft Sky Wars channel
or something, I'll have Minecraft in there,
sky Wars in there, high pixel in there.
Like any uh, like diamond sword in there.
I'll be like, here's
how I am like became the best Minecraft Sky Wars player.
I use my favorite items like Diamond Swords to do this
and use like golden apples
and like, uh, this will obviously make more sense
of you have played Minecraft,
but just an example, like I'm just using keywords of um,
that relate to the niche that
would help suggest it to the right audience.
But I'm not going and just like listing like keyword enter
and just like making a list of the keywords.
It's like a description of what's going on in the video.
And then I incorporate keywords
as if they're naturally meant to be in that paragraph.
So use keywords from your niche naturally in those
paragraphs, but don't spam the keywords like
keyword stuffing in your comments.
And just putting a bunch of keywords can prevent
your video from being pushed.
I'm sure you'll see videos that end up getting used anyways,
but I've definitely seen it happen before.
I would just recommend not doing this.
Um, and use YouTube Gen AI with your Title plus script, uh,
to generate your descriptions
because in Tube Gen you can literally
just generate a description.
It's gonna read your title and your script
that you made from your video and generate a description.
Now as for shadow Band detection,
what are signs of shadow ban?
So I know by saying Shadow Ban
and it's pretty much where just YouTube doesn't give your
channel any impressions, right?
If you're getting a bunch of impressions from suggested
and B, that's how you know, if you're getting impressions
from suggested and brows features
and I'm talking like more than a hundred combined on a
video, you're definitely good.
Like even really more than 50,
then you're just not shadow Banning a ton
of people will be like, oh my Shadow ban,
oh my shadow banning like, I got this question
so much like the second, I know the second I talk about
Shadow banning a bunch of people are gonna be like, oh,
I'm a shadow ban 'cause I'm getting no views.
It's like 90% of the time you're not.
So, uh, I wanted to go over this
so you can know yourself without having to ask.
So signs of Shadow ban zero impressions
after 24 to 48 hours. So if you upload your video
And it's been 48 hours, you literally have zero
impressions from suggested a brows features like zero,
less than five, then you know,
you might be shadow banned views are only from
direct shares or external sources.
It's pretty much saying the first thing, uh,
the same thing as this, right?
The impressions, uh, if they're coming from anywhere else,
it doesn't matter if they're not coming from Brows.
Future suggested.
And once again, so honestly, I dunno what I was doing here.
I kind of just wrote the same three
things, but in different ways.
Uh, no brows or suggested traffic at all.
Like yeah, if you're getting no impressions, uh,
from Brows Future suggested in the first like 48 hours at
all, then you might be shadow banned, um,
especially if it happens on like two videos in a row.
So solutions start fresh
with a new channel using a proper usage.
Email channels, likely dead
or shadow band and a usage email.
If you don't know what that is, a bunch
of people will talk about starting channels on age channel.
Like, like find a YouTube channel that you've had for five,
six years or something like that,
or one that's you've had for a few months and use that.
I've done a ton of testing personally.
I've tested age channels on new emails I've tested,
like I'll create a new email and I won't touch it,
but I'll create a YouTube channel and I start the channel on
there like four months later.
Cre uh, I've tested using a new email
and new channel I've tested using an old
email and new channel.
I've tested using an old email,
an old channel I've tested using an old email
that is currently active that I still use.
New channel, like I've te I've literally tested all of these
and if you don't believe me, I I pro like
however many, I think there's like six variations
or so that I've tested of these and I've tested all of them.
And what I've noticed is the most effective thing
to help you get pushed as quickly
as possible in your niche isn't an age channel.
It's not an aged email either.
It's what I call like a usage email or an active email.
Pretty much an email that's active.
So something that would say is at least like minimum three
months old, probably an email
that you use actively keep mind.
YouTube is owned by Google. So it just needs
to be active in the sense of it's being used
for either Google Drive, to write emails,
to use Google Docs, to use Google Sheets,
to watch YouTube videos, whatever the case is.
Uh, and then I use a new channel.
I think a if you use an age channel, it doesn't hurt,
but I don't think it really does anything as, as long as
as you have like usage email
or an active email, I like to call it a usage email,
then you're, you're, uh, totally fine.
So my, my best advice is, uh, it's gotta be a Gmail account
of course, because it's gotta be Google.
So I would just advise if you have a a a Gmail account
that use actively for whatever, I would honestly just use
that If you're like, oh, well it's for this or that,
or it's for personal use, it's fine.
Like, does, is it really, really gonna impact your,
like think about it like this, will this detrimentally
impact your life negatively
to put your YouTube channels on that email?
Um, if, is it like, is it worth the risk to make, you know,
potentially 10, 20, 30, 40, $50,000 plus a month?
Like, I've never heard of a case
where the answer would be no.
It's just like some people like wanna be organized
and not have that associated with that active email
that they have, but I mean, it's just the best chance
of you getting pushed out quicker.
So why not do it? That's gonna be it for this module.
Uh, I'll see you guys in the next one.
We got three inner circle modules in a row.
So for anybody not in the inner circle,
I'll see you in module 15.